# Contemporary Issues In Data
In this document I discuss two perspectives about the use of DNA databases by the government. 

## How DNA Databases Deter Crime
[The creepy, dark side of DNA Databases](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2021-02-01/dna-databases-are-better-crime-deterrent-than-long-prison-time)
This article argues that the use of DNA databases deters people from committing crimes. The author cites a study done in Denmark showed that "adding people charged with a felony to Denmark's DNA database reduced the likelihood of another conviction within the following year by 42%". DNA databases are used in every U.S. state and the state databases are linked to form a national database that is managed by the FBI. The studies also showed that expanding US state databases to include people charged with a crime (with or without a conviction) could have big crime-reduction benefits. I don't think people who have not been convicted of a crime should be in a DNA database with felons. If someone hasn't been convicted of a crime, they should not be treated like a criminal. Having this database could also lead to false convictions, if a person is a partial DNA match for DNA found at a crime scene.

## The Creepy, Dark Side of DNA Databases
This article [The creepy, dark side of DNA Databases](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-creepy-dark-side-of-dna-databases/2018/05/08/279e9c2c-5230-11e8-abd8-265bd07a9859_story.html) focused on the use of a public DNA database, GEDMatch that was used to catch the Golden State Killer. The Golden State Killer was found through DNA from a rape kit that was uploaded to 2 DNA databases, one database had a match for a relative of the killer and he was found after that. 23andMe and Ancestry state they "will comply with valid legal processes seeking consumer information but it is unclear from the companies terms of service whether that applies to usernames. photo, and credit card information or if it extends to genetic material as well". Due to these vague terms of service it's unclear whether the government can be privy to people's detailed genetic information which can reveal intimate details such as race, health conditions or their relation to serial killers. It is a violation of privacy for people who want to know more about their heritage and find ancestors to know that their DNA that they voluntarily submitted could be subject to government inspection. It's especially alarming to hear that the government could access this information when the former President Trump announces that those DNA databases would be used to find undocumented immigrants. Our genetic information, the core of who we are should not be used against us by the government especially when it is submitted to a non governmental organization.
